NAME: 	Study of Gamma Interferon in Chronic Granulomatous Disease (CGD.DAT)
SIZE: 	203 observations, 16 variables.


SOURCE:  Counting Processes and Survival Analysis by T. Fleming &
         D. Harrington (1991), John Wiley & Sons Publishers


DESCRIPTIVE ABSTRACT:

The following data are from a placebo controlled randomized trial of gamma 
interferon in chronic granulotomous disease (CGD). The CGD study, which 
is described in a report by the International CGD Cooperative Study 
Group (1991), was designed to have a single interim analysis when the follow-
up data as of July 15, 1989 were complete. The monitoring committee for the 
trial terminated the trial at a meeting on September 22, 1989, based on the 
interim analysis. The treatment given each patient was unblinded at the first 
scheduled visit for that patient following the decision of the monitoring 
committee.

The data for each case give the time to initial and any recurrent serious 
infections, from study entry until the first scheduled visit of the patient 
after the decision of the monitoring committee. These infections are those 
observed through the interim analysis date of record (7/15/89) as well as the 
additional data on occurrence of serious infections between the interim 
analysis cutoff and the final blinded study visit for each patient. There is 
a minimum of 1 record per patient, with an additional record for each serious 
infection occurring up to the study completion date.



LIST OF VARIABLES:


Variable		Description
_________________________________________________________________________

ID		Case identification number. The first 3 digits denote a 
                hospital code.

RDT		Date randomized onto study (for S = 1 record), in the 
                format mmddyy.

IDT		Date of onset of a serious infection, or date the patient 
                was taken off the study.

Zl		Treatment Code, 1 = Gamma Interferon, 2 = placebo.

Z2		Pattern of inheritance, 1 = X-linked, 2 = autosomal recessive.

Z3		Age, in years.

Z4	     	Height, in cm.

Z5	    	Weight, in kg.

Z6	     	Using corticosteroids at time of study entry, 1 = yes, 2 = no.

Z7	     	Using prophylactic antibiotics at time of study entry, 
                1 = yes, 2 = no.

Z8	     	Gender, 1 = male, 2 = female.

Z9	     	Hospital category, 1 = US - NIH, 2 = US - other, 
                3 = Europe-Amsterdam, 4 = Europe-other.

Tl	     	Elapsed time (in days) from randomization (from S = 1 record) 
                to diagnosis of a serious infection, or if a censored 
                observation, elapsed time from randomization to censoring date.
                Computed as IDT-RDT (from S = 1 record).

T2	     	0, for S = 1. If S > 1, T2 = Tl (from previous record) + 1.

D	      	Censoring indicator, 1 = Non-censored observation 
                (i.e., a serious infection occurred at the date specified by 
                the IDT field), 2 = censored observation (i.e., the patient 
                was taken off study at the date specified by the IDT field.) 
                Note that only patient ID = 238087 had a serious infection
	        diagnosed on the date he was taken off study.

S	      	Sequence number. For each patient, the infection records are 
                in sequence number order.
________________________________________________________________________________


STORY BEHIND THE DATA:

Chronic Granulomatous Disease (CGD) is a group of inherited rare disorders of 
the immune function characterized by recurrent pyogenic infections which 
usually present early in life and may lead to death in childhood. Phagocytes 
from CGD patients ingest microorganisms normally but fail to kill them, 
primarily due to the inability to generate a respiratory burst dependent on 
the production of superoxide and other toxic oxygen metabolites. Thus, it is 
the failure to generate microbicidal oxygen metabolites within the phagocytes 
of CGD patients which confers the greatly increased susceptibility to these 
severe or even life threatening infections.

There is evidence establishing a role for gamma interferon as an important 
macrophage activating factor which could restore superoxide anion production 
and bacterial killing by phagocytes in CGD patients. In order to study the 
ability of gamma interferon to reduce the rate of serious infections, that 
is, the rate of infections requiring hospitalization for parenteral 
antibiotics, a double-blinded clinical trial was conducted in which patients 
were randomized to placebo vs. gamma interferon. Between October 1988 and 
March 1989, 128 eligible patients with CGD were accrued by the International 
CGD Cooperative Study Group. Since the study required delivering placebo 
injections three times weekly for a twelve month period to one-half of the 
patients, most being children, there was particular interest in achieving 
early termination of the trial if early results were extreme. A single 
interim analysis was to be performed as soon as patient follow-up was 
available through July 1989, six-months after the date on which one-half of 
the patients had been accrued.

At the time of interim analysis, twenty of 65 placebo patients and seven of 63
patients on gamma interferon each had experienced at least one serious 
infection


